# MODEL0911665321: Fox2002_IonicMechanism_CardiacMyocytes

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL0911665321.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL0911665321.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Ionic mechanism of electrical alternans.**   
Fox JJ, McHarg JL, Gilmour RF Jr. _Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol_ 2002
Feb;282(2):H516-30 [11788399](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11788399) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Although alternans of action potential duration (APD) is a robust feature of
the rapidly paced canine ventricle, currently available ionic models of
cardiac myocytes do not recreate this phenomenon. To address this problem, we
developed a new ionic model using formulations of currents based on previous
models and recent experimental data. Compared with existing models, the inward
rectifier K(+) current (I(K1)) was decreased at depolarized potentials, the
maximum conductance and rectification of the rapid component of the delayed
rectifier K(+) current (I(Kr)) were increased, and I(Kr) activation kinetics
were slowed. The slow component of the delayed rectifier K(+) current (I(Ks))
was increased in magnitude and activation shifted to less positive voltages,
and the L-type Ca(2+) current (I(Ca)) was modified to produce a smaller, more
rapidly inactivating current. Finally, a simplified form of intracellular
calcium dynamics was adopted. In this model, APD alternans occurred at cycle
lengths = 150-210 ms, with a maximum alternans amplitude of 39 ms. APD
alternans was suppressed by decreasing I(Ca) magnitude or calcium-induced
inactivation and by increasing the magnitude of I(K1), I(Kr), or I(Ks). These
results establish an ionic basis for APD alternans, which should facilitate
the development of pharmacological approaches to eliminating alternans.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Fox JJ, McHarg JL, Gilmour RF Jr. (2002) -
version02** ](http://www.cellml.org/models/fox_mcharg_gilmour_2002_version02)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Noble, Penny,**   
penny.noble@dpag.oc.ac.uk  
Oxford University  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


